welcome to e2 talks it's a podcast where
we chat about the English language
landscape talking about topics relevant
to students like you
in this episode Jay chats to Abram an
e-2 language student who recently took
Pte academic and IELTS academic Jay and
Abby discussed the pros and cons of each
test and compare their difficulty levels
so if you need help deciding between Pte
academic and IELTS academic listen
carefully for their insider tips on each
test enjoy
every wrong I love you mr. Jones it's
good to see you back in back in eetu HQ
I know it's always good to be back at e2
HQ
so tell everyone what you used to do
here so that was it each of close to two
years I started off as Student Support
Manager and then eventually you know
started helping out the marketing team
so I was in a marketing and sales
manager for a year or so with e to
language nice good one
yes and you were great employee and I
was very sad the day that you left but
it also gave us a great opportunity
because you needed to take one of these
high stakes English exams and we thought
right let's get a beer arm to take both
IELTS academic and PT e academic and
we'll do a little comparison not just of
scores but about the whole thing the
whole shebang like the test day
experience I want to know about how you
felt on test 8 doing each of the exams I
want to know how you're prepared for
both of the exams and at the end we'll
talk about what is your scores where
okay sounds like a plan yeah I think we
keep the scores at the end yet all right
sounds good so tell me first about test
day experience like what was it like for
PT and what was it like for IELTS
because you took computer-based IELTS
right that's correct yeah I didn't take
the computer-based and it's you know if
I'm being honest it's the first time I
took part of the PT or the Isles okay
because previously I taken the TOEFL but
I hadn't taken the PTO the also it was a
brand new experience you know for taking
both of these exams yeah I took the PT
II first yeah and you know a lot of
things that you know I sort of kept in
mind based on the methods or anything
else that has been spoken about or what
would it be the in a right way to do
this yeah I think the first important
thing that I realized too is because I
booked both my exams in the morning mmm
it helped me you know do this right away
at the beginning the starting of the day
and this makes sure that I had it out of
the way so and also gave me with the way
fresh mindset right so I had a fresh
mind I was ready you know both my exams
are like 9:00 a.m.
you a morning person I'm not a morning
person actually but at least for this
scenario realized that probably if I had
you know maybe taken an afternoon slot
considering that I'm a working
professional as well as you know
preparing for an exam simultaneously if
on the offset chance that I didn't get
say a weekend slot which is that what
actually happened with the PT II I ended
up doing it on a weekday
I had to ensure that I actually got it
out of the way and then I could you know
probably get back to work for the second
half of the day so yeah I don't not
taking you know a morning slot for the
PT II yeah but once I had that
experience I realized that you know
taking morning exams were actually very
helpful hmm and that helped me make the
decision that I'll take the IELTS exam
on a morning slot so as science
experiments is good because taking both
tests at the same time nice little
design there it is talk me through PT
first what how did you wake up you're
feeling nervous we're feeling okay I was
I've read you know both as a part of e
to and otherwise I've read a lot of
stories about how people told me that
the PT II would be difficult how it's a
very you know smart exam and it'll be a
completely different ball game compared
to how the TOEFL was previously and that
sort of said the pretext for me to
believe that it's not going to be an
easy thing at all
hmm and I wasn't wrong I the preparation
was quite tough because there are so
many structures there's so many
different types of questions you want to
go ahead and make sure that you know
you're mastering each and every type of
questions you have to balance your
preparation time you know you work time
your leisure all of that and I think it
was just a combination of putting all of
that together hmm
and you know making sure that I wasn't
going ahead and spending like about 16
hours a day or twelve hours a day trying
to remember those concepts trying to
remember what what would be the best way
to remember say a structure for the
essay or how to approach a section like
describe image which by far is the most
difficult thing I've ever done it was
just about understanding if I had this
particular concept in my head then I
could take it I could apply it across
different questions so to me rather than
spending time you know
doing the concept again and again I I
did a dedicated sort of you know I
dedicated myself to go ahead and look at
the concept first get that in and spent
the next and are also to do just the
question in this concept you mean the
method the method yes so for example in
the essay when you say that you know you
need to have an introduction a paragraph
one paragraph to at a conclusion it
didn't take me long to you know get that
concept in my head because of course
I've been familiar with that over a long
period of time but for someone who took
it you know for the first time and
actually implemented it while writing an
essay and Manta Singh I could see how it
might have been somewhat difficult but
as I started writing say my second
practice question in the essay section I
pretty much got into rhythm yeah and I
slowly realized that for you know every
other section that was present in the PT
II maybe you know the toughest again as
you've heard a lot of times was the PT
speaking okay so there were 20 tasks in
the PT and we teach 20 methods and I've
been teaching this for ages so for me
it's easy it's just like oh yeah of
course
summarize spoken text you do this and
listening multiple choice multiple
answers you do this how did you go
actually memorizing those twenty methods
from e to language which are bloody
effective but how did you go memorizing
them if I'm being honest the
memorization came with the practice
mm-hmm which is what I sort of was
highlighting earlier yeah said to me it
wasn't at least the structure that I had
opted was not I need to memorize the
concept first and you know only when
it's completely in my head I'll go ahead
and do the practice example nice I had a
look at it
I understood you know if this was a
definite structure this is the method
then I can only improve you know or
adhere to that method by practicing more
yeah so I understood you know the basic
overview I understood what the method
actually you know says but as I kept
practicing I wrote my first essay
compare it back to the method realized I
had missed out on say two or three
points I wrote my second essay and then
I got a little bit better and by the
time I reached say my fourth essay I
actually knew I was sticking to you know
the methods that had been described over
there and this is pretty much consistent
for all the you know 20 tasks that are
there in the PT II how I believe you
know this the biggest challenge was
actually with regards to speaking
because you you know with the writings
the methods that were provided were
beautifully eloquent and we could go
ahead and you know get that in your head
as you practice but it speaking I feel
that that's where the more candid the
most subjective element came into play
so even if there is a particular you
know concept like say for example
described image where you can break it
down to say maybe a four step or a five
step method on test day I would still go
ahead and you know my my candid behavior
would actually color his candid you mean
a bit spontaneous a bit spontaneous yes
yes you have to because the image that
you see in front of you requires you to
be spontaneous and speak in the moment
and as long as just stick to the the
basic pathway of the method you're gonna
be pretty safe 100 percent yes yes so
yeah that's pretty much what I realized
as well I think what we've done with the
method series we've taken something
really abstract like describing image or
retell a lecture or even am listening
multiple-choice it's an abstract process
like what's happening with language in
your brain is this totally subjective
unconscious behavior that we just do
without thinking and so what we've tried
to do is make that abstract nature of
that question more concrete and give it
some sort of yet method step-by-step
process to solve it we can't you can't
again there's no solving of it through
the method either it's just it's just a
way to approach it isn't it which is yes
which is exactly what I realize on test
say that this is not something that you
can go ahead and always believe will be
the most definite solution it gives you
a way forward and after that it needs to
be your you know aptitude your IQ as
well that comes in yeah yeah as much as
people learn test prep and do practice
questions and learn methods ultimately
if there's no vocabulary or grammar or
your pronunciations off it is ultimately
test of English isn't it and you find
that on test takers you like this yeah
because you you have to speak
spontaneously you can't memorize spoken
responses you cannot memorize anything
really apart from those approaches that
is absolutely correct and at that point
when I did say my first set of questions
where I had to be spontaneous or
bringing you know something that I saw
on test day probably the first time I
did that you know for the first question
as such I was a little bit intimidated
but as I started realizing that we could
go ahead and you know I can still make
mistakes I could still think about you
know okay is this the right way to do it
and do those quick calculations in my
head hmm
I could still bring out you know a
spontaneous side of me which helped me
say you know clear something like a
describe image or a retail lecture yeah
yeah lovely yeah okay and just from the
Pte
you said describe image was challenging
any other sections or tasks that were
challenging describe image as always
yeah what about the reading did you fine
the multiple choices any like particular
tasks stumped you oh if I'm being honest
along with the discovery which it was
retail lecture because you're not
prepared to you know really you're not
really ready for what the speaker is
going to be discussing about or talking
about and and you just dropped into a
lecture like a dream you know dreams
have no beginning or no end you're just
in it and it's like exactly and you know
you just transition from one task to
another and all of a sudden you have
someone talking about it so even even
though the concept is just about you
know understanding what someone's saying
in that audio clip and going ahead and
reproducing that in your own words and
paraphrasing it yeah it is quite a
challenge yeah and that's probably one
of the sections where there's been a lot
of you know challenge that's right it's
been a lot of difficulties that I've
faced as well even during practice so I
would I would start doing a practice
question and then I realize halfway
through that oh I don't have a
conclusion for this and then I would
have to go back to the method tried
understand how conclusions can be drawn
up mm-hmm and then mentioned that okay
this is out it so go back to the same
question again so it was just practice
to make sure that I could get that on
test a excellent yeah cool well you
clearly have the requisite English
skills this is not your issue your issue
is not vocabulary or oral fluency as I
can hear yeah your challenge your
challenge isn't an English language one
so your challenge was really test prep
wasn't it it was
and I I could relate to it because I
feel a lot of students would also you
know perceive it that way yeah it's not
the English language test at the end of
the day that's the most difficult part
yeah it's actually making sure that
you're preparing for it in the right way
you want to make sure that because for a
lot of people including myself I took
the test because I need it for say my
immigration and that's why a lot of
people would take these English based
tests yeah so when you're taking that
you know the stakes are automatically
higher yeah I'm bad too why you'd say
take maybe a general English test
otherwise yeah so when you're preparing
for you're preparing with that you know
concept at the back of your mind that
you want to go ahead and make sure that
you clear it in your first attempt yeah
and you want to make sure that it all
goes smooth sailing and all of that so
is the preparation I heard today from a
from a testing center that somebody has
taken PT 48 times this might not be true
by the way it was a bit of a bit of a
rumor but I've also read newspaper
articles of people taking IELTS 21 times
for example it's just it I just find it
staggering that's even if you took it
five times or 10 times or 15 times it's
staggering that people don't find some
sort of intervention and thing hmm maybe
I should actually work on maybe you know
I guess so
but at the end of the day it's just
about the preparation yeah if you're
able to get through with your
preparation you shouldn't be having no
problems on test day yeah and as someone
who took you know both the PT II and the
Isles for the first time yeah it was the
preparation that made the difference
yeah and considering the fact that I
took the PT II first yeah if I'm being
honest I wasn't really confident that I
had done actually well
okay but yeah because that made me doubt
my preparation I thought that you know
okay maybe I could have done this better
actor than that better yeah I'm probably
gonna get you know I'm gonna miss marks
in these sections
yeah so you will have that but it's all
about the preparation at the end of the
day good one all right then you went and
took IELTS academic hell long after your
PT test so I gave myself a month ago it
took you know between the PT and the
Isles it's approximately a month a
couple of reasons for that one I had to
you know focus on work commitments
obviously yeah and the second was I
wanted to find a convenience lot because
if it was something that I had to take
say maybe on a weekday and it wasn't
fitting with my timings that would have
you know not worked out for me yeah so I
was actually fortunate not to find a
slot on the weekend on a Saturday
morning nice and because it's a
computerized Isles I managed to get the
speaking on the same day as well so it
was Saturday morning I took my IELTS
academic and was I think it was just a
different experience okay okay
just before we talk about the test
itself and the test tasks and sections
and stuff both are quite how would you
say they're quite pleasant experiences
right in terms of the testing centers
the small numbers these are my
experience anyway it was it was quite a
pleasant experience and what I'm
comparing it to is the paper-based IELTS
we have taken which was an unpleasant
experience in my opinion especially once
I took it at the Melbourne Convention
Centre and I think there was like 600
people big lines waiting to go to the
bathroom it was like you know during the
test was a total pain so in short these
computer-based tests have made the
psychological experience of test taking
a lot better do you agree yes and I
think one just to add on to that one of
the things is when I had the chance to
interact with other test takers who were
there most of them were working
professionally okay they were either
taking it say for example for you know
because they were the profession needed
something like that yeah or you know
they were only working professionals
just wanted to go ahead and study now
when you're working for about four or
five years and you're really you
- typing on the computer yeah and you
suddenly have to take a paper-based oh
that wasn't gonna work because a couple
of them who were there had actually
taken the paper-based first yeah and
when they knew that the computer
computerize Isles had come in yeah they
were really happy with how it actually
turned out yeah so I think that played a
big difference because if you're having
a lot of working professionals taking to
computerize Isles yeah it's actually
very easy for them they used to typing I
was used to having I was very
comfortable typing yeah and I could I
could possibly imagine if I had to sit
there and write in a grey lead pencil
yeah that that would really wouldn't
have been you know something that I
would have wanted to do so the computer
Isles is actually yeah yeah in many ways
it makes the writing section much easier
compared to handwriting and essay with a
pencil which is absolutely ridiculous
I'm glad those days are numbered which
is cool okay so um all right let's talk
through the high helps testing how was
your experience of the IELTS like let's
go through each section you start off
listening how was listening listening
was straightforward because the methods
that were prescribed the methods that I
studied yeah very straightforward to the
point
easy to understand from e to his
perspective on test day it was in if I'm
being honest it wasn't as intimidating
as you know what happened in the PT e
because the PT is slightly more intense
right with that big difference
the PT uses authentic lecture materials
right so you might get a bit of noam
chomsky talking about you know American
politics then you get some physicists
talking about kinetic energy and you
know it's full on the IELTS listening is
inauthentic these are scripted items
they're they're not from real life okay
which is makes it easier it makes it
easier but I think I'll start to make it
slightly more difficult okay they're
trying to you know see ways in which
people need to be actually on top of
their listening game
for example some of the names might be
very complicated you can have you know
someone like say Sean which is a name
but it could be spelt as se a and so you
really need to be on top of your
listening and because if you miss that
anything you come back later and write
it you might remember Sean but you might
just write say maybe
such a WN and an IELTS is the master of
distractors yeah there they have plenty
at this track oh yeah it'll be a
multiple choice and all three of the
options will be mentioned and they sort
of pull you in one direction you think
oh then oh no hang on for me a couple of
questions just came down to you know one
word or two words that were different
but everything else as a part of those
options were the same yeah so yeah
listen listening was pretty good it was
just about you know making sure that I
really paid attention yeah yeah it is
it's an attention game isn't it it is
and you you miss one of the words I'm
and you have you just have to go back
and you know I think it was this and you
just have to put that cuz if you
daydream for sick anything Oh what am I
gonna have for lunch but you've missed
one and it's easy to do that because I
did that too for you know a couple of
questions but I pretty much realized I
had to you know by the end of the first
question that happened I was like I knew
I had to do this the good thing about
aisles from you know what I've seen as
test taker is it's very guided
especially in terms of you know you have
you do have your examine which laters
who are there throughout every section
of the test yeah so you will go ahead
and you know have them telling you yes
you're not going to commence the writing
section yeah you're gonna have so and so
to do this you know bathroom breaks no
there's no taking food all that so
throughout the course of the test it was
actually very helpful to have someone
who is who guide you yeah but with the
PT II that's the only thing that I can
think of where you know because you you
just for me one example that I can think
of is when I went ahead and I started
clicking through the first few screens
you record your voice yeah and then next
thing you know you're suddenly in the
test yes right I would actually that's
one of my criticisms of PT is there's no
distinction between the tasks exactly go
from multiple choice single answer what
oh oh now I'm in multi choice multiple
answer and it didn't tell me like they
should put a little screens between them
going okay now you're doing reorder
paragraph for a bit rock and roll and
then you see a timer ticking and that's
the new you sweat you become nervous and
that's what happened about speaking as
well so describe
marita lecture yep so IELTS is is very
well organized and mapped out you know
exact
great cool what about the reading
section so reading was was advantageous
I would say because one of the one of
the nicest things is when you when you
do the Ito method that you see you will
know that automatically when you're
looking for the answer for at least most
of the questions it is in chronological
order yes right which is one of the
first things that the method describes
yeah so you look at that and then if
you're able to master that you should be
able to get through reading yeah there
are no from what I remember there are no
complicated words that actually need you
know a massive knowledge of vocabulary
you know no complicated long words yeah
easy to understand again the main the
main thing is the distractors because
you want to look you know for that right
sentence but you can be led astray it's
it's just ultimately it's a meaning that
it's a really good test of meaning
actually I think the reading section
yeah and there's nothing no vocabulary
that's like what does that word mean
it's quite common focus but it really
does get you to read carefully very
carefully yes cool
all right and then let's talk about the
writing section about writing my story
however a lot of stories about writing
and I wrote it with that added pressure
because I'm yeah it was it was like and
you're doing academic academic yes yes
and you're looking at writing task 1
writing task 2 and you know there's an
explanation where you know that task 2
carries double the marks of task 1 and
all of those things have to be kept in
mind so you need to frame all of your
answers in the writing section perfectly
yeah and if I'm being honest I actually
thought you know I did pretty well I
know yeah I looked at the band
descriptors yeah I saw you know the
structure the approach how I can you
know stay true to those band descriptors
have grammar vocabulary in there and I
actually you know check my IELTS essay
more a number of times than I actually
be checked my Pte essay yeah I didn't
mean I'm always you know check essays I
would never do that
but for these exams because of the
things that were staying always made
sure that I check my essay help me
remove a couple of errors yeah
although I realize later that I do make
some errors but yeah with the Isles I
actually been a triple checked my essay
but still you know I felt that at the
end of all of this if my schools are
gonna go low then I just cannot you know
do anything about it so I did accept
that and made sure that I had to you
know give me my best for highest writing
yeah and I being academic I had to make
sure that you know I was on top of my
game talking about say you know
different parameters that I can see say
for example in the graphs
yeah we're Alan task one is yes task 1
is tricky because you know you suddenly
realize and that's the thing that I was
thinking at the back of my head because
I had already taken the PT first and I
was doing the Isles yeah the IELTS
writing task is as difficult as the PT
speaking and task one is just like the
describe image that you see in the PT II
and that's that also helped me sort of
frame the way I would be writing that
essay yeah because you know in describe
image you have that particular method
you start off with an introduction yeah
point one point two point three I
thought I could implement the same IELTS
as well so that's that's a little bit
soon find out
interesting yeah you're writing IELTS
writing is notoriously challenging
notoriously challenging perhaps a little
too challenging anymore talk about that
in a second speaking you yes just
quickly had to go very straightforward
straightforward it's very
straightforward you know having having
that human intervention I can see why it
can be you know very advantageous
because at the you know when you realize
that you're gonna be using your English
and everyday work in communication you
couldn't be talking to another person
yeah and when you see them you know
realizing that okay I'm able to
understand what he's saying yeah it was
okay so yeah it was pretty good I had a
really good examiner who was patient to
explain everything
yeah I agree the speaking is pretty
straightforward
alright cool well let's do the big
reveal shall we drumroll okay
this with Pte okay yeah so can I read
them out yes go for it so PT of course
is out of 90 that's a maximum score you
can get so listening 90 well the reading
90 well done speaking 90 writing 87 87
look honestly that is they are
phenomenal scores three points out of I
know and if I'm being honest I think I
did one of the most revealed mistakes I
realize no mistake was okay so the
trivial mistake that I'm pretty sure a
lot of people would do and which we very
common is I keep remembering you know
one of these videos where you've
mentioned do not interchange spellings
if you're using these you know stick
with disease if you're using the S is
use the S so I'm pretty sure at some
place and so spelling realize I've put
it with a Z and the other place I've put
something else with an S yeah I I don't
know I don't know because spelling in PT
I've seen a lot of report cards and
people often get very low scores in
spelling but can still get 90 in writing
so the way teach for spelling my
inference is that it doesn't weigh very
much in terms of possibly but to me
consciously I think that's that's the
mistake that I did not stick to say one
format especially yeah do stick to one
format for sure but um that's good that
it doesn't carry much weight is because
mean we live in a society where you
don't really need to worry that much
about spelling so is it just you know in
terms of communication honestly so
that's good grammar 88 see missed a
couple of marks I actually when I took
my PT I got 88 for grammar as well so I
remember riding a particular sentence
cause called an inversion sentence which
is like one of those sentences that
there are blah blah blah I've given one
of those yes smart to the computer
building a computer I'm pretty sure that
was it that penalized me yeah so that's
pretty phenomenal oral fluency 90
pronunciation 90 written discourse which
is the essay structure so I'm glad you
wrote that second one 90 fantastic so
and vocab 85 so yeah a couple of points
off in your enabling skills but really
you're happy of those scores I am I mean
it's I don't think I could have done
honestly yeah and and I guess that's one
of the insights that I sort of got you
know which relates to the point that I
was talking about earlier it's okay to
believe that maybe you didn't do as well
but if you have stuck to the method yeah
aunt Esther you're giving your best then
it really shouldn't be difficult to you
know get your 79 plus that's required
yeah yeah and I can honestly admit that
I didn't mate I didn't hesitate in one
or two places but I was confident off
with my answers and that helped you know
push my scholars
yeah they allow their pretty allow
hesitations and Amazonas not too many of
course but it's supposed to be natural
spoken English and people um and are
naturally anyway so fantastic great PT
scorers you've definitely got your
immigration numbers there IELTS ready
so I also scored out of nine so
listening nine well done we go let's go
to speaking speaking eight point five
cool
fine that's great you're not a native
English speaker so that is if you know
that's a great great score reading eight
which is totally understandable I think
honestly I've taken IELTS academic three
four five times five times I've only got
nine twice three times each time have
been eight point five or nine so it's
and that means you've missed one
question or two I think two questions
and then you go down half a band score
okay so then possibly brutal with this
scoring so reading eight writing no do
you want to say you saying I'll say it
believe it or not six point five which
is pretty interesting because you know
I've worked with you for a number of
years and I saw your writing and I
imagine you did prepare properly like I
can't I I don't know why you would get a
six point five did you think about
challenging that score well I wanted to
but then you know when I went ahead and
thought of what could have possibly gone
wrong
I'm thinking you know I know my task one
was pretty straightforward yeah I'm very
certain that I lost marks in
- which is something you know that's
actually one of the big insights because
there's there's some sa question that I
got in toss to was not a standard one at
all so you remember well yes yes I
actually do yeah yeah okay so you know
how you always have you know a problem
statement yeah and then you need to give
you know say may be either discussed
both sides and give you an opinion okay
you write something yet yeah to me I had
two problem statements and then I had
you know write the advantageous
disadvantageous so what I think would
have gone drunk what I feel would have
gone wrong is that I might have gone off
on a tangent so here's my problem
question all right yeah the increasing
number of large out-of-town departmental
stores are you know causing problems for
small stores that are and town centers
okay this means that more people will
have to use their cars Oh to go to these
oh right discuss on why this would be
advantageous or not what advantage is
the the out of exactly so there was a
bit of the ambiguity in there no and it
could mean that you know when I first
heard I thought okay I just had to talk
about you know why town centre stores
are better than say out of town stores
yeah but then as I continue reading the
question suddenly to me it's like wait
is does he want me to compare is it you
know gonna be on the lines of pollution
traffic using the cars cars are becoming
more affordable you know where do I go
where do I start so yeah um to me
honestly I think that's where I went off
on a tangent yeah
and because Ryan toss to is double the
points of writing tasks I probably got
punished for task achievement there yeah
yeah it's it's full-on like really it is
a with that it is a bit of a luck of the
draw
wow that one sounds particularly hard
that actually sounds a little bit it is
and when I saw it I really tried to
think back about you know the different
type of types of essays that you
we were spoken about in the videos
what's the best way to approach them I
don't think we've got a method to listen
on that and then I suddenly realized
that hang on this again the other bring
out the spontaneity so it just became
you know what I could achieve at that
particular time yeah I mean I didn't use
the methods I didn't use you know
whatever I could remember from the video
so the methods yeah that's what videos
but I largely had to go ahead and you
know yeah well uh you know what can you
do there that's that's that's stuff that
almost requires like an 8 paragraph
essay you know what it does cover
everything and talk about the pros and
cons of driving cars and the pros and
cons of large retailers so yeah tricky
it is although the topic was very
relatable like it's something that you
can you know see in a real it's not
something that you have to think very
deeply right yeah I just I just believe
that yes the idea generations not the
issue correct is about making sure you
know yeah tasks achievement as you
mentioned yeah yeah that you're riding
on topic that you're yes answering that
cool all right any takeaways I'd be
around what would you what would your
words of wisdom be your recommendations
for people aspiring for an IELTS a tour
a PT e 79 the only thing that you know
at the end of all of this is it's not
about preparing in a very intense
fashion uh-huh it's about preparing with
a plan mmm-hmm so you need to go ahead
and tell yourself that I'll plan this
our planning does not mean you got to
study 16 hours a day do this yeah you
follow the methods yeah you go ahead and
you know you practice and be PT or IELTS
or any other English pace exam you
should be able to crack it
yeah so to me it was about getting my
you know preparation executed in the
right way yeah and it did help out of
the PT II eventually but I was not so
much yeah
but I'm happy with the way I sort of you
know planned this out but with the
addition of you know the method videos
understanding how I can do those
practice questions in with e to that
that's that's the best part of you know
knowing that there's some quality sort
of practice
material out there which you can use in
order to go ahead and boost your
preparation yeah one of the things that
distinguishes us from a lot of other
preparation providers is our methods and
methodologies because we've thought
through all of these well obviously not
that last essay he's got but all of the
different tasks you'll get step by step
approach to each one and that's
incredibly helpful because often with
this stuff it is a matter of just taking
that abstraction and then making it more
concrete and giving it a stepwise
fashion cool man
all right so what are you gonna do with
your results well um I've got my scores
of the Pte so yeah I think next steps
will involve you know getting the
immigration part of it solid so maybe
file my expression of interest yeah
hopefully get a PR before my current
visa runs out in saying this beautiful
beautiful city
lovely fantastic and you'd be surprised
how many people leave it to the last
minute for their to get their scores my
visa is about to expire don't please
don't do that yeah if you're listening
to this start appearing now take a test
or even better take our mini mock test
or our mock test on ET language comm
just to get an idea of what your scores
might be and then you can prepare from
there and don't honestly some people
have two weeks to go and I need a 79 I
only go to 46 and uh at the end of all
of those guys listen to Jay he knows we
should leave it there thanks for
listening to e to talks remember to
check out Ito language comm for p2e and
IELTS courses
also check out a to school comm for
general English language learning Thanks
[Music]
you